Using Bun - Expo Documentation

[Docs](/)

[Blog](https://expo.dev/blog)[Changelog](https://expo.dev/changelog)[Star Us on GitHub](https://github.com/expo/expo)

Search

[Home](/)[Guides](/guides/overview)[EAS](/eas)[Reference](/versions/latest)[Learn](/tutorial/overview)

[Overview](/guides/overview)

Development process

[Develop an app with Expo](/workflow/overview)[Configure with app config](/workflow/configuration)[Continuous Native Generation](/workflow/continuous-native-generation)[Using libraries](/workflow/using-libraries)[Privacy manifests](/guides/apple-privacy)[Permissions](/guides/permissions)[Environment variables](/guides/environment-variables)

Linking

Write native code

Compile locally

Web

Bundling

Existing React Native apps

Existing native apps

Reference

Expo Router

[Introduction](/router/introduction)[Installation](/router/installation)

Router 101

Navigation patterns

Advanced

Reference

Migration

Expo Modules API

[Overview](/modules/overview)[Get started](/modules/get-started)

Tutorials

Reference

Push notifications

[Overview](/push-notifications/overview)[About notification types](/push-notifications/what-you-need-to-know)[Expo push notifications setup](/push-notifications/push-notifications-setup)[Send notifications with the Expo Push Service](/push-notifications/sending-notifications)[Handle incoming notifications](/push-notifications/receiving-notifications)

Reference

More

[Upgrade Expo SDK](/workflow/upgrading-expo-sdk-walkthrough)

Assorted

[Authentication with OAuth or OpenID providers](/guides/authentication)[Using Hermes](/guides/using-hermes)[iOS Developer Mode](/guides/ios-developer-mode)[Expo Vector Icons](/guides/icons)[Localization](/guides/localization)[Configure JS engines](/guides/configuring-js-engines)[Using Bun](/guides/using-bun)[Edit rich text](/guides/editing-richtext)[App store assets](/guides/store-assets)[Local-first](/guides/local-first)[Keyboard handling](/guides/keyboard-handling)

Integrations

Troubleshooting

Regulatory compliance

[Data and Privacy protection](/regulatory-compliance/data-and-privacy-protection)[GDPR compliance](/regulatory-compliance/gdpr)[HIPAA compliance](/regulatory-compliance/hipaa)[Privacy Shield](/regulatory-compliance/privacy-shield)

[Archive](/archive)[Expo Snack](https://snack.expo.dev)[Discord and Forums](https://chat.expo.dev)[Newsletter](https://expo.dev/mailing-list/signup)

Using Bun
=========

[Edit this page](https://github.com/expo/expo/edit/main/docs/pages/guides/using-bun.mdx)

A guide on using Bun with Expo and EAS.

[Edit this page](https://github.com/expo/expo/edit/main/docs/pages/guides/using-bun.mdx)

---

[Bun](https://bun.sh/) is a JavaScript runtime and a drop-in alternative for [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en). In Expo projects, Bun can be used to install npm packages and run Node.js scripts. The benefits of using Bun are faster package installation than npm, pnpm, or Yarn and [at least 4x faster startup time compared to Node.js](https://bun.sh/docs#design-goals), which gives a huge boost to your local development experience.

Prerequisites
-------------

> Note: While Bun replaces Node.js for most use cases in your project, at this time, a [Node.js LTS version](https://nodejs.org/) is still required to be installed for the `bun create expo` and `bun expo prebuild` commands. These commands use `npm pack` to download project templates.

To create a new app using Bun, [install Bun on your local machine](https://bun.sh/docs/installation#installing).

Start a new Expo project with Bun
---------------------------------

To create a new project, run the command:

Terminal

Copy

`-Â``bun create expo my-app`

You can also run any package.json script with `bun run`:

Terminal

Copy

`-Â``bun run ios`

To install any Expo library, you can use `bun expo install`:

Terminal

Copy

`-Â``bun expo install expo-av`

Use Bun for EAS builds
----------------------

EAS decides which package manager to use based on the lockfile in your codebase. If you want EAS to use Bun, run `bun install` in your codebase which will create a bun.lockb (the Bun lockfile). As long as this lockfile is in your codebase, Bun will be used as the package manager for your builds. Make sure to delete any lockfiles generated by other package managers.

### Customize Bun version on EAS

Bun is installed by default when using EAS. See the [Android server images](/build-reference/infrastructure#android-server-images) and [iOS server images](/build-reference/infrastructure#ios-server-images) to learn which version of Bun is used by your build's image.

To use an [exact version of Bun](/eas/json#bun) with EAS, add the version number in eas.json under the build profile's configuration. For example, the configuration below specifies Bun version `1.0.0` for the `development` build profile:

eas.json

Copy

```
{
  "build": {
    "development": {
      "bun": "1.0.0"
      %%placeholder-start%%... %%placeholder-end%%
    }
    %%placeholder-start%%... %%placeholder-end%%
  }
}

```

Trusted dependencies
--------------------

Unlike other package managers, Bun does not automatically execute lifecycle scripts from installed libraries, as this is considered a security risk. However, if a package you are installing has a `postinstall` script that you want to run, you have to explicitly state that by including that library in your [`trustedDependencies`](https://bun.sh/guides/install/trusted) array in your package.json.

For example, if you install `packageA`, which has a dependency on `packageB` and `packageB` has a `postinstall` script, you must add `packageB` in your `trustedDependencies`.

To add a trusted dependency in your package.json, add:

package.json

Copy

```
"trustedDependencies": ["your-dependency"]

```

Then, remove your lockfile and re-install the dependencies:

Terminal

`-Â``rm -rf node_modules`

`-Â``rm bun.lockb`

`-Â``bun install`

Common errors
-------------

### EAS Build fails when using Sentry and Bun

If you're using `sentry-expo` or `@sentry/react-native`, these depend on `@sentry/cli`, which updates source maps to Sentry during your build. The `@sentry/cli` package has a `postinstall` script which needs to run for the "upload source maps" script to become available.

To fix this, add `@sentry/cli` to your [trusted dependencies](/guides/using-bun#trusted-dependencies) array in package.json:

package.json

Copy

```
"trustedDependencies": ["@sentry/cli"]

```

[Previous (More - Assorted)

Configure JS engines](/guides/configuring-js-engines)[Next (More - Assorted)

Edit rich text](/guides/editing-richtext)

Was this doc helpful?

* Share your feedback
* [Ask a question on the forums](https://chat.expo.dev/)
* [Edit this page](https://github.com/expo/expo/edit/main/docs/pages/guides/using-bun.mdx)
* Last updated on April 07, 2025

Sign up for the Expo Newsletter

Sign Up

Unsubscribe at any time. Read our [privacy policy](https://expo.dev/privacy).

On this page

[Prerequisites](/guides/using-bun/#prerequisites)[Start a new Expo project with Bun](/guides/using-bun/#start-a-new-expo-project-with-bun)[Use Bun for EAS builds](/guides/using-bun/#use-bun-for-eas-builds)[Customize Bun version on EAS](/guides/using-bun/#customize-bun-version-on-eas)[Trusted dependencies](/guides/using-bun/#trusted-dependencies)[Common errors](/guides/using-bun/#common-errors)[EAS Build fails when using Sentry and Bun](/guides/using-bun/#eas-build-fails-when-using-sentry-and-bun)